###Participants
* Kay Hänsge (DT)
* Marc Emmelmann (Fokus)
* Ewa Janczukowicz (Orange)

###Agenda
* Verify the architecture schema (github WP3.3/architectures_solutions_new.pptx) and architecture description (WP3.3/architecture_solutions_new_description.md)
* Decide on interfaces for architecture and LHCB

###Minutes

####Solutions review
- We talked about the importance of AF block in the mobile architecture part since the same functionality can be achieved by using only TDF. Kay said that with AF and information from getStats a better granularity can be achieved. Ewa proposed using TDF for basic communications and AF when better granularity needed. Kay confirmed that it is in line with what he put in his presentation for the next week meeting (three levels of quality). So OK for keeping the AF functionality.
- Architecture schema and description were verified and reviewed. Current version of the architecture schema is correct. Architecture description is going to be improved offline.
- Marc confirmed the role of LHCB in the global architecture. LHCB broker is not the same as a "broker" block on the schema. 

####Interfaces
- Talked about authorization by using OAuth token. Token can be given for a certain amount of data or for a certain time.
- Confirmed interaction between different actors.
- A new schema to be done focusing on this point.

####Step by step actions for fix and mobile architecture
- Before setting up a communication
    - Network operator configures TDF, AF, Homegateway, so in generals its QoS policy.
    - Broker communicates with network operators and gets information about their QoS policies.
    - How broker will know which information to provide? - AP -> Kay mentioned he can check it in ETICS work
    - Broker provides token to CSP
- During the communication 
    - Token is sent along communication flow.

####LHCB interfaces
- Interfaces and call flows will be provided by Marc


###Portugal meeting
- During the meeting in Portugal interfaces should be discussed in detail with the rest of WP3
- Offline note: Methodology and implementation should be discussed too

###Action points
* AP1: Improve architecture description - All
* AP2: Broker functionality from ETICS - Kay, All
* AP3: Interfaces definition - All
* AP4: Methodology definition - All



