###Participants
* Kay HÃ¤nsge (DT)
* Ewa Janczukowicz (Orange)
* Eric Paillet (Orange)
* Simon Becot (Orange)

###Agenda
* Broker presentation: Eric
* Discussion on mobile, LHCB and fix methodology: All
* Decide on what to discuss during the plenary meeting

###Next Meeting - 16th December

###Minutes
####Broker
- Broker presentation - Eric
      - Presentation of different blocks andinteractions between them - detailed description to be uploaded to github
      - Implementation to be done aroind February
- Discussion about broker
      - What happens if multiple TURN servers
        - Decision can be done based on different metrics, geographical aspects, round robin, etc.
      - Broker needs to be considered as a dynamic entity
      - There is a need of a more formal specification of APIs and interfaces
        - How is it going to interact with the runtime (WP3)
- Broker presentation - Kay
      - Broker focuses on multiple domains
      - For each domain monitorint (i.e. information about the usage and their possible functionalities)
      - Provide info by segments
      - Set up in advance
      - To check: scalability issues

####WP5
-  See the requirements and suggest scenarios for QoS
      - Possible that some network parts will remain BE
      - There would be a new infrastructure, broker will not be per operator but would have a more global view, and would get more information about different domains
      - Ewa presented what Eric will be working - i.e. first simplified version of a broker
- AP3 - LHCB methodology
      - Marc uploaded LHCB description 
      - For the next meeting everyone will read this file and prepare questions or suggestions, docs/meetings/WP3.3/LHCB_Methodology with different use cases
      - He faces the same problem that he discussed with brokering, what happens if there are several LHCB systems?

####Plenary meetings
- Prepare a slide per approach (LHCB, fix, mobile)

####Action points
* AP1: Upload broker info to github - Eric, Ewa
* AP2: Provide more formal specification of APIs and interfaces - Eric, Ewa, ASAP
* AP3: Discuss with WP5 contributors about possible WP3.3. scenarios before the plenary meeting - Kay, ASAP
* AP3: Discuss with WP5 contributors about possible WP3.3. scenarios during the plenary meeting - Kay, ASAP
* AP4: Describe on github mobile architecture - 2nd approach - Kay
* AP5: Describe on github mobile architecture - 1st approach - Ewa
* AP6: Prepare a slide per approach (LHCB, fix, mobile) - All, ASAP


