Attendees
Ewa JANCZUKOWICZ , Simon BECOT (Orange)
Alice CHEAMBE, Robert ENDE (Fokus)
Kay HAENSG  (DT)
Paulo CHAINHO (PTI)
 
Orange
•	Context of the work
    o	Best effort is not enough
    o	Over the Network approach, In Network approach. 
    o	The one selected is In-Network approach with B2B2C best effort.
•	Reusing managed VoIP principles: TURN-based architecture proposal
    o	Turn server is a media relay in the media path - for NAT, mobile P2P, allows the network operator to be in the media path and compatible with the web company choices.
    o	Abstraction layer is needed (broker).
    o	In access network it gives benefits.
    o	DSCP used by Webapp to mark the IP flow
•	Objectives and beyond state of the art aspects
    o	Exploiting different IP paths
    o	Valorize SLA path segments 
    o	Collaborative trouble shooting
•	Roadmap
    o	TURN Based solution
    o	Interface with global architecture and loose coupling between elements 
 
•	How do we map this to architecture side?
    o	It is important to have some kind of interface/API  in order to allow the application to ask for a QoS

Fokus
•	Objective: identify what we want to do for rethink project
•	Load balancing tool, that could be used between a messaging node and a hyperty, based on traffic
•	Other mentioned points:	
    o	Enforcing WebRTC through virtualization

DT
•	Fokus on mapping and QoS enforcement – mapping is needed to assure interoperation between different network segments
•	Extract information from WebRTC flows (getStats API) by using JSON simple messages
    o	It can be used for policy enforcements
    o	Contribute to signaling of flow information towards the access network
•	Hyperty or network functions to provide a feasible path treatment regarding the requested QoS characteristics.
•	Also an In-Network approach so there are common points with Orange solutions.

PT
•	A need of SoTa - consider 5G
•	Work on a high level API (in line with hyperties)

General 
•	Methodology - Roadmap
    o	Presentations = SotA 
    o	Exchange documents and think about a common solution for the next meeting in order to work on methodology

Action points
AP1 : Presentation of Fokus tools – Alice, next meeting
AP2: Summary: Presentation of TURN-based architecture – Ewa, next meeting
AP3: Summary: Presentation of QoS mapping and enforcement + DT solution – Kay, next meeting
AP4: Send existing papers on proposed solutions: Ewa, Kay, Alice - ASAP
AP5: Decide on methodology and roadmap - all
