###Participants
* Ewa JANCZUKOWICZ, Simon BECOT, Arnaud BRAUD (Orange)
* Alice CHEAMBE, Marc EMMELMANN (Fokus)
* Steffen DRUESEDOW  (DT)

###Fokus presentation
* Load balancing tool (presented during the last meeting) do not fit the requirements as it more applicable for network scalability.
* New solution: Last Hop Connectivity Broker (LHCB) - last hop between a user and the network. It can expose information (e.g. signal strength) and assist in selecting a best connection (access type).
* Enforcement before the communication establishment, but possibility to enforce changes during the call, not sure yet.
* LHCB is operator agnostic, it provides information about different possible connections.
* It can be used as over-the-network approach with neutral business model. 
* It could expose information to the hyperties.

###Orange
* More detailed presentation of prototype architecture.
* Packet marking by application and by network. Authentication can be done at the TURN server level. 
* Broker is still a research topic.

###DT presentation
* Presented more details about the solution discussed during last meeting.
	* WebRTC Audio = QCI 1
	* WebRTC Video = QCI 2
	* WebRTC Data = QCI 4
* Focus on mapping for marking.
* Enforcement not tested yet, but signaling yes.

###Discussion
* Aspects of authentication and authorization studied in detail yet.
* Multi-domain not studied yet (interoperability).
* Broker is still a research topic.
* Need licence to use OpenEPC.

###Action points
* AP1: Doodle for the next meeting – Ewa, ASAP
* AP2: Propose global architecture taking into account different partners input – All, before next meeting 
* AP3: Send presentations to all participating partners – Alice, Steffen, Ewa, ASAP

###Offline Questions
* To Fokus - can you explain key differences between LHCB and ANDSF(Access network discovery and selection function)?
