<h2>Network QoS  Requirements</h2><p></p>**QoS component should assure collaboration between network and application layer actors** :</br> There should be a collaboration between network operators (Network or Internet Service providers) and communication service providers, e.g. 3rd party communication service providers, since network operators do not have the control over the whole environment.<br/>**QoS component should provide a single contact point for troubleshooting issues** :</br> A single contact point should be assured for troubleshooting issues, i.e. to verify the appropriate level of the quality and make eventual improvements.<br/>**QoS component should enable isolating and valorizing performance improvements** :</br> Segments that contribute to improvement of quality should be identified. The improvements should be valorized and quantified, e.g. for monetization reasons. <br/>**QoS component should leverage IP paths diversity** :</br> The are different possible connection paths, i.e. paths offering best-effort services or managed paths with a certain Service Level agreement. These different possibilities should be considered. <br/>**QoS component should impact different network types and segments** :</br> Should impact mobile, wireline, wifi access networks, but also interconnection. <br/>**QoS component should be compatible with evolution of different standards and terminals** :</br> <br/>**QoS component should be compatible with deployed network technologies** :</br> Eventual improvements should be in line with current technologies. It should not be neccessary to make big changes to existing network deployments, but current technologies should be modified or improved. <br/>**QoS component should be compatible with application layer technologies e.g. WebRTC** :</br> <br/>**QoS component should exploit partially SLA and partially best-effor network segments** :</br> The communication service path can consist of parts provided by different actors. As not all of these actors may be willing to provide quality of service, the communication path may consist of segments with Service Level Agreement or with best effort quality. As a result there is not necessarily end-to-end path, but the quality may vary.<br/>**QoS component should take into account participating and non-participating actors** :</br> Network QoS should take into account a fact that in the communication path there can be participating and non-participating actors, i.e. not all actors will support providing network QoS so it will not always be possible to offer end-to-end quality.<br/>**QoS component should have global reach** :</br> Network QoS should be provided on a global scale<br/>