### Agenda

1. Action Points review (5 min)
1. [Assets Selection Criteria](../sota/selection-criteria.md)(20 min)
1. [State of the Art ](../sota/sota.md) status (30 min)
1. Agenda for Face to Face meeting in Berlim. (5 min) Topics:
 1. Approve SOTA and Evaluation Reports and Assets Short list
 2. Discuss input from T2.2 and T2.3 and draft initial arch and APIs
 3. kick-off implementation tasks
 4. Synchronisation with WP4 including common methodology and tools for the integration and documentation
 
### Participants


* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte, Micael Pedrosa, Miguel Mesquita (PTIN)
* Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)
* Ewa (Orange)
* Steffen, Kay (DT)
* Frédéric (APIZEE)
* Rebecca (IMT)
* Alice (Fokus)

**Missing: Quobis**

### Summary

Action Points were reviewed:

AP21: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Runtime by using the Github issues feature and label ["Runtime Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Runtime%20Requirement). To be done by All. Paulo from PTIN lead this task. Deadline 6th May -> no new requirements were added.**closed**

AP22: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Messaging Node by using the Github issues feature and label [" Messaging Node Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Messaging%20Node%20Requirement). To be done by All. Adel from FOKUS lead this task. Deadline 6th May. Alice added a few more requirements.**closed**

AP23: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Network Qos by using the Github issues feature and label [" Network QoS Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Network%20QoS%20Requirement). To be done by All. Ewa from Orange lead this task. Deadline 6th May. Ewa added some requirements that will be completed this week.**ongoing**

AP3: APIZEE and QUOBIS contribute with SOTA about their solutions including an analysis on how they could fit with the protocol-on-the-fly mechanism provided by WONDER library(APIZEE, QUOBIS, Deadline: 7 May). Quobis provided a contribution but not APIZEE. Ongoing

AP5: Volunteer to be responsible for SOTA about "Security in the runtime". 29th Apr. INESC-ID volunteered to provide this contribution to be provided during this week**closed**

AP6: confirmation that Orange will contribute on Firebase solution. (Simon, 29th Apr) - closed. Initial contribution provided by ORANGE**closed**

AP7: report about SOTA status. (All, 11th May)**closed**

No new Runtime Requirements were added. Alice provided a few more Messaging Node requirements. Ewa provided some Net QoS requirements that will be better explained during this week, if possible with some examples. Rebecca raised some issues about Net QoS requirements that will be commented in the github (if they are not clarified with the improvements to be provided by Ewa). Dedicated Telcos to discuss some specific issues are encouraged.

A brief report of current SOTA contributions was provided by each partner. In general, contributions are progressing well but contributions from some partners are still missing. It was discussed the need to refer the version of evaluated solutions. A dedicated session to discuss the evaluation of Vertx by FOKUS and PTIN was agreed and scheduled for this week.

The Agenda for Berlin was reviewed and no further topics were added. Task Leaders should provide a brief presentation for their tasks.

### New/pending Action Points

AP23: Improve description of [" Network QoS Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Network%20QoS%20Requirement) if possible with examples. (Ewa, 15 May)

AP3: APIZEE contribute with SOTA about their solutions (APIZEE Deadline: 13 May)

AP9: Final report about SOTA. (All, 18th May).

AP10: Each task leader should provide some slides to be presented in Berlin. It should contain:
- overview. objectives and dependencies on other tasks
- workplan for phase 1
- methodology
(Alice, Ewa, Yudani, Paulo 15 May)
