### Agenda

1. WP3 Overview (15min, PCh)
  1. Objectives
  1. Structure
  1. [Workplan](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/wiki/Phase-1-Workplan)
1. [Partners-Expectations-and-Assets](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/wiki/Partners-Expectations-and-Assets) (25 min)
 1. Orange ()
 1. DT ()
 1. PT Inovação (PCh)
 1. Fokus ()
 1. APIZEE
 1. INESC
 1. QUOBIS
1. [State of the Art](../sota/sota.md) (15 min)
 1. Overview
 1. Task allocation
1. Agenda for Face to Face meeting in Berlim (4 hous). Topics:
 1. Approve SOTA and Evaluation Reports and Assets Short list
 2. Discuss input from T2.2 and T2.3 and draft initial internal APIs
 3. kick-off implementation tasks
 4. Synchronisation with WP4 including common methodology and tools for the integration and documentation
 
### Participants

* Ricardo Chaves (INESC-ID)
* Ewa, Arnault (Orange
* Yudani (QUobis)
* Ingo, Steffen (DT)
* Adel, Frank (Fokus
* Frédéric (APIZEE)

### Summary

WP3 Overview provided with some clarifications about the scope of each task.
Regarding T3.5, it was encouraged the usage of different technologies to implement the Messaging Node / Server functionalities namely Vertx (Fokus, PTIN) and Nodejs (Orange, APIZEE). It was also discussed whether these solutions could also be used in T3.2 as Hyperty runtimes in terms of Modules since they both support Javascript (to be further clarified).

The detailed  [Workplan](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/wiki/Phase-1-Workplan) was presented including the objective to approve in the F2F Meeting in Berlin (10-20 May), SOTA contributions, a short list of assets to be selected and work on a initial draft for the APIs. No objections were raised.

Each partner presented their expectations and assets to be provided to the project. APIZEE and QUOBIS are willing to provide similar solutions and they both should contribute with them in the SOTA that should analyse how they could fit with the protocol-on-the-fly mechanism provided by [WONDER library](http://hypercomm.github.io/wonder/).

The SOTA structure was briefly presented and it was asked to all partners to review it, include more references and volunteer to be resposible to contribute for some references ASAP (until 15 April).

### Action Points

* AP1: Review [SOTA](../sota/sota.md), include more references and volunteer for contributions (All, Deadline: 15 April).
* AP2: Derive requirements and selection criteria for runtime, messaging, frameworks and QoS components (All, Deadline: 23 April)
* AP3: APIZEE and QUOBIS contribute with SOTA about their solutions including an analysis on how they could fit with the protocol-on-the-fly mechanism provided by [WONDER library](http://hypercomm.github.io/wonder/)(APIZEE, QUOBIS, Deadline: )
* AP4: next meeting: 27th April
