## Agenda

* Implementation status
* ICIN Paper

## Attendance

* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte, Micael Pedrosa, Joel,  (PTIN)
* Alice (FOKUS)
* Frédéric Luart (APizee)
* Antón Román (Quobis)
* Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)


## Summary

**Implementation status was reviewed**

 * bus/syncher (PTIN): done
 * runtime registry (INESC): ongoing
 * runtime ua catalogue (back-end) (Fokus): Alice was not aware of the status. FOKUS will provide later today the status
 * runtime ua front-end (PTIN): protostub deploy finished including a generic sandbox class to be reused by the browser and node implementation. Currently the source code includes a web worker implementation that will be moved to the dev-runtime-browser repo. A generic mechanism to import the generic core-runtime from the browser and nodejs repos was [proposed](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-browser/issues/2)
 * policy engine (INESC): ongoing and already using the pipeline interceptor to integrate it in the vertx implementation
 * identity module (Orange/INESC): unknown
 * vertx incl protostub (PTIN): done. documentation provided
 * nodejs incl protostub (APIZEE): to be started this week.
 * matrix incl protostub (DT): no one from DT attended the meeting
 * browser runtime (Quobis): to be started this week.

**Hyperty Paper**

PTIN, Quobis, INESC agreed to write a paper to introduce the Hyperty concept. An email will be send to ask more interested partners to contribute.

Next telco will be on the 29th October at 10:30 CEST (Thursday)
