## Agenda

* Implementation Status review
* Next releases overview

## Attendance

* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte, Micael Pedrosa, Joel,  (PTIN)
* Alice; Marc (FOKUS)
* Frédéric Luart (APizee)
* Antón Román (Quobis)
* Ricardo Chaves, Nuno, Gil (INESC)

**Missed**

* Orange
* DT

## Summary

**Implementation status review**

 * bus/syncher (PTIN): done
 * runtime registry (INESC): ongoing
 * Alice gave a rough status on the implementation for the Catalogue Runtime UA and Marc provided based on this
a very detailed sketch on the current status. Marc was requested to update [issue#3](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/issues/3) include his status report there.
 * runtime ua front-end (PTIN): protostub deploy finished including a generic sandbox class to be reused by the browser and node implementation. Currently the source code includes a web worker implementation that will be moved to the dev-runtime-browser repo. A generic mechanism to import the generic core-runtime from the browser and nodejs repos was [proposed](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-browser/issues/2)
 * policy engine (INESC): depends on policy language definition from wp2
 * identity module (Orange/INESC): focused on IdP server and its client (protostub): open issue
 * vertx incl protostub (PTIN): done. documentation provided. next task: protostub support
 * nodejs incl protostub (APIZEE): started.
 * matrix incl protostub (DT): no one from DT attended the meeting
 * browser runtime (Quobis): started 
 * nodejs runtime (APIZEE): started 

**Next Releases**

The following features were agreed for th

Runtime 0.1 (13th Nov):

* Browser Runtime with App and Hyperties in the same sandbox: to be confirmed later today or tomorrow after a talk between PTIN and Quobis
* Hyperty Framework : to be confirmed next Monday
 * Message Factory
 * SyncManager
 * Address Factory
 * ...

Core 0.2 (27 Nov)

* Policy Engine
* Identity Module
* Basic H2H
* Basic M2M
* Basic IdM
* Matrix MsgNode
* Nodejs MsgNode


## AOB ##
It was discussed that  WP-3 and WP-4 seem to operate at different 
speeds which effects testing interacting components.  Fraunhofer has solved this for its contributions as
the same development team has control over the Catalogue in WP-4 and the counterparts in WP-3. Nevetheless, we have some open
cross-WP issues that responses from other WPs are missing and hence block developments in WP-3.
