### Agenda

1. Action Points review (5 min)
1. [D3.1](../deliverables/D3.1-Hyperty-Runtime-and-Hyperty-Messaging-Node-Specification.md) more detailed structure (10 min)
1. [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) (30 min)
1. [Dynamic View](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/architecture/tree/master/docs/dynamic-view) (15 min)

### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa, Miguel Mesquita  (PTIN)
* Ewa Janczukowicz (Orange)
* Steffen Drüsedow,(DT)
* Frédéric Luart, Arnaud Vallée (APIZEE)
* Antón Roman (Quobis)
* Nuno Santos (INESC-ID)
* Alice Cheambe (FOKUS)
* Rebecca Copeland (IMT)

### Summary

**Action Points Review**
* AP12: Feedback about [proposed](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/blob/master/docs/specs/runtime.md) Runtime arhitecture, Runtime Types and Strategies (All, 5th June). **ongoing**
* AP14: HTTP 2.0 SOTA contribution (Antón, 5th June) **done**
* AP15: Nodejs and Kurento SOTA contributions to be improved (Frédéric, 5th June) **NodeJS still pending**
* AP16: FireFox OS SOTA contributions (Steffeen, 5th June) **done**
* AP17: Jitsi SOTA contributions (Micael, 5th June) **to be improved**
* AP18: HTML5 SOTA contributions (Paulo, 5th June) **done**
* AP19: Docker and OpenWebRTC (Mesquita, 5th June) **done**

**D3.1**

A more detailed structure of D3.1 was introduced and a summary of SOTA material was agreed and distributed among partners (see new Action Points below).

**Runtime Architecture discussion**

Nuno, proposed to have Identities Container and PEP/FW in a separated sandbox to protect from attacks performed by malicious Hyperties. These attacks may happen in case policies are against the interest of the Hyperty instance eg charging, or to block outgoing messages. Micael, proposed to have these two functionalities in the Core Sandbox.

Rebecca, commented that we should analyse the type of policies we want to enforce in the runtime (eg qos, access control, charging, etc) and how they are deployed in the runtime (eg everytime the runtime is turned on, per communication session, only once,..). It was agreed to have this analysis according to the device type and policy type in D3.1, probably in the "Runtime Security Analysis" section.

It was agreed to rename "Policy Engine / FW" to "Router/Policy Enforcement Point (PEP)" and to separate the Policy Enforcement  from the Policy Decision functionality which would be co-located with the current "Policy Repository" functionality. 

Micael, commented that Router should be connected to WebRTC Engine since it may use the Data Channel to exchange messages with other peers. However, it was commented that this is an implementation option of the protoStub itself that is hard to express in the picture. The Hyperties should have directly access to WebRTC engine as well as the protoStub. Such possibilities will be described in the textual description of the architecture. 

Different options to locate the Router functionality were discussed:
* PEP/Router located in the Service Provider Sandbox: it would be more vunerable to attacks from malicious Service Provider Hyperties but it would avoid the need to standardise the Policy Action Language (but policy condition language would still need to be standardised in case the PDP is centralised in the Core Sandbox, no?)
* PEP/Router located in dedicated Sandbox like DMZ: it would be more secured but more complex and less performant
* PEP/Router located in Core Sandbox: it would be more secured, but the full policy language would have to be standardised. In case there is a breakout it would also impact the full runtime. 

**Dynamic View**

Current WP2 Dynamic View was briefly introduced to explain the idea of having something similar but in terms of the Runtime Architecture and to support the design of the Runtime APIs. Initial use cases should be contributed in time for the next meeting.

**Meetings**

It was agreed to go on with bi-weekly meetings on Thursday at 12:00 CEST. Next meeting will be on the 2nd, July.

### New Action Points

* AP12: General Feedback about [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) to be discussed [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/41), (All, ongoing).
* AP15: Nodejs and Kurento SOTA contributions to be improved (Frédéric, 5th June)
* AP17: Jitsi SOTA contributions to be improved (Micael, 5th June)
* AP20: Runtime Security analysis initial version (Nuno Santos, 26th June)
* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June)
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June)
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June)
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June)
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June)
* AP26: [Input to discussion about the location of Runtime PEP and PDF](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/45) (All, ongoing)
* AP27: Initial contribution for the Runtime dynamic view (Paulo, 24th June)
* AP28: Additional Input for the Runtime dynamic view (All, 1st July)

