### Agenda

1. Weekly meetings schedulling (1 min)
1. Action Points review (5 min)
1. [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) and [Security Analysis](../specs/runtime/securityanalysis.md) (20 min)
1. [Dynamic View](../specs/runtime/dynamic-view) (20 min)
1. Next steps. Allocation work for the dynamic view (9 min)
1. Typescript vs Javascript (5 min)

### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa, Luis Duarte, Miguel Mesquita, Vitor Silva,  (PTIN)
* Ewa Janczukowicz (Orange)
* Steffen Drüsedow,(DT)
* Yudani Riobó, Santiago Troncoso (Quobis)
* Mark Emmelmann, Alice Cheambe (FOKUS)
* Nuno Santos, Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)

Excused:
* Frédéric Luart (APIZEE)

### Summary

It was agreed to start having weekly meetings during July to speedup D3.1 edition at same week day, same time, every Thursday at 12:00 CEST.

**Action Points Review**
* AP12: General Feedback about [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) to be discussed [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/41), (All, ongoing).
* AP15: Nodejs and Kurento SOTA contributions to be improved (Frédéric, 5th June) **pending** delayed until 3rdJuly
* AP17: Jitsi SOTA contributions to be improved (Micael, 5th June) -> **closed**
* AP20: Runtime Security analysis initial version (Nuno Santos, 26th June) **closed**
* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP26: [Input to discussion about the location of Runtime PEP and PDF](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/45) (All, ongoing) **closed**
* AP27: Initial contribution for the Runtime dynamic view (Paulo, 24th June) **closed**
* AP28: Additional Input for the Runtime dynamic view (All, 1st July) ongoing according to methodology agreed


The Runtime architecture was revisited according to last changes according to feedback coming from the Security Analysis contribution. Nuno proposed to avoid sandbox nesting and rename "Service Provider Sandbox" to "Service Provider Sandboxes". Nuno, also proposed to have a sandbox for the Hyperty instances. The group agreed on these changes.

Nuno Santos, introduced the runtime [Security Analysis](../specs/runtime/securityanalysis.md) contribution which was very much appreciated by the group with no major comment.

The group discussed the methodology to follow to fully specify the runtime components, including:
- to take [WP2 dynamic view work](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/architecture/tree/master/docs/dynamic-view) to further elaborate the data flows between runtime components using MSC diagrams eg using PlantUML tool.
- collect functionalities and parameters from the MSC diagrams to design components APIs. API design should also take into account APIs from existing components to be reused eg postal.js

The runtime specification work will be organised in three groups dedicated to three types of use cases:

* Identity Management: DT (Ingo?), Orange (Kevin?, Jean-Michel?), Quobis (Santiago), INESC (Ricardo Chaves?), PTIN (Paulo)-> weekly session to be doodled
* H2H Communication: APIZEE (Frédéric), DT (Steffen), Quobis (Santiago), PTIN (Paulo)?-> Weekly session every Monday at 12:00 CEST
* M2M Communication: Fokus (Alice, Mark), PTIN (Paulo), INESC (Ricardo Pereira, Artur) -> Weekly session every Friday at 10:00 CEST

Finally, the group discussed the Web programming language to be used: Javascript or Typescript. No decision was taken but a few concerns were raised about Typescript. Partners are encouraged to provide their opinions on such important topic in [this](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/46) issue.


### New Action Points

* AP12: General Feedback about [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) to be discussed [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/41), (All, ongoing).
* AP15: Nodejs and Kurento SOTA contributions to be improved (Frédéric, 5th June) **pending** delayed until 3rdJuly
* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP28: Identity Management Runtime dynamic view (All, ?): doodle to find a date
* AP29: H2H Comm Runtime dynamic view (All, 6th July at 12:00 CEST)
* AP30: M2M Comm Runtime dynamic view (All, 10th July at 10:00 CEST)
* AP31: [Discuss](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/46) Javascript vs Typescript (All, ongoing)
 


