### Agenda

1. Action Points review (5 min)
1. [Runtime Dynamic View](../specs/runtime/readme.md) review (5 min)
1. [Runtime APIs](../specs/runtime/runtime-apis.md) kickoff (15 mn)
1. [Runtime Browser Implementation](../specs/runtime/browser-runtime.md) based on experimentations with workers results. Discussion about [further experimentations](../../tests/browser-runtime/readme.md) (15 min)
1. [Messaging Node spec](../specs/msg-node/readme.md) review (15 min)
1. next steps: Other Runtime types implementation incl. standalone apps, embedded, server (5 min)

### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa, Luis Duarte, Vitor Silva,  (PTIN)

* Steffen Drüsedow, Ingo Friese, Frank Oberle (DT)
* Alice Cheambe, Andreea Ancuta (FOKUS)

* Arnaud Vallee (APIZEE)
* Santiago Troncoso, Antón Román (Quobis)
* Nuno Santos, Ricardoo Pereira (INESC-ID)

* Rebecca Copeland, Ahmed BOUABDALLAH (IMT)

### Summary

Pending Action Points were reviewed:

* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP32: [Service/Web Workers experimentations](../../tests/workers/readme.md) (Steffen, Fréd, Vitor, Joel) **done** conclusion is Service Workers are not appropriate to implement Hyperties or Core Components. They should only be used to manage the cache of these components
* AP34: Feedback about [Messaging Node specification](../specs/msg-node/readme.md) (All, 15th July) **ongoing**
* AP36: Discuss Hyperty Framework task (All)  **ongoing**
* AP37: Initial specification for Vertx based Messaging Node (Micael, Alice, 22nd July)  **ongoing**
* AP38: Initial specification for Nodejs based Messaging Node (Arnaud/ Fréd , Santiago/Antón, 22nd July)  **ongoing**
* AP39: Initial specification for Matrix based Messaging Node (Steffen, INESC-ID?, 22nd July)  **ongoing**

The runtime dynamic view was briefly reviewed with some discussion around M2M related use cases.

The first draft for the Runtime APIs was presented and all partners are invited to contribute, taking into account the data flows work being done for the dynamic view.

A Initial proposal to [implement the browser runtime](../specs/runtime/browser-runtime.md) based on iFrame sandboxing features was presented and discussed. Different [experimentations](../../tests/browser-runtime/readme.md) have to be performed in order to validate this proposal.

The Messaging Node architecture was further discussed but it is now considered stable. Initial spec for the Vertx was presented.


### New Action Points
