## Agenda

* Implementation status:
 * bus/syncher (PTIN) 
 * runtime registry (INESC)
 * runtime ua (Fokus, PTIN)
 * policy engine (INESC)
 * identity module (Orange/INESC)
 * vertx incl protostub (PTIN)
 * nodejs incl protostub (APIZEE)
 * matrix incl protostub (DT)
 * browser runtime (Quobis)
* [Framework discussion](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/117) and [Specs](../specs/service-framework/sf_message_factory.md)


## Attendance

* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte, Micael Pedrosa (PTIN)
* Marc Emmelmann, Alice (FOKUS)
* Frédéric Luart (APizee)
* Steffen (DT)
* Nuno Santos, Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)

* Simon, Jean-Michel (Orange)
* Ana Caldeira (INESC-ID)

excused: 
* Antón Román (Quobis)

## Summary

**Implementation status was reviewed**

 * bus/syncher (PTIN): functional
 * runtime registry (INESC): started
 * runtime ua (Fokus, PTIN): PTIN has started, FOKUS will provide later today the status
 * policy engine (INESC): started
 * identity module (Orange/INESC): unknown
 * vertx incl protostub (PTIN): functional
 * nodejs incl protostub (APIZEE): not started
 * matrix incl protostub (DT): started but no source code committed yet
 * browser runtime (Quobis): repo created and persistence issue created. This discussion also has impact on other components including Registry, Runtime UA and Policy Engine.
 
**Hyperty Framework**

Message Factory API discussed. It was proposed to have it as common library that takes as input the Message Model JSON Schema and that would be used by any other component that needs to handle Hyperty Messages. It would also be nice to have at least it implemented in Javascript and Java (to be used at least in Vertx). In this way changes in the Message Model would have minimum impact across the project. This common librares would be managed in a dedicated dev-common repo. An higher level data synchronisation API (DataObjectReporting and DataObjectObservation ) to be implemented on top of the Syncher, Message Factory and MessageBus was discussed. This could be the basis to handle more specific data object models like Communication and Identity. A dedicated telco to discuss Hyperty Framework was schedulled for next Friday, 16th Oct 2015 at 10:00 CEST. It has been proposed to have an initial version of the Hyperty Framework released by Runtime 0.1 milestone (13th Nov). By the 16th Oct there should be a concrete proposal to allocate implementation tasks among partners.

Next WP3 telco will be next Monday 19th Oct by 14:30 CEST
 

