## Agenda

* Close the [D3.1 edition](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/milestones/D3.1%20Ready%20for%20final%20Edition) 
* to define the [development environment and methodology](../methodology/readme.md). Proposal to have dedicated repositories per module eg core runtime, browser runtime, node runtime, vertx node, matrix node, Node.js node,...
 


### Attendance

* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte, Vitor Silva, Micael Pedrosa (PTIN)
* Eric (Orange)
* Antón Román (Quobis)
* Marc Emmelmann, Alice Cheambe; (FOKUS)
* Frédéric (Apizee)
* Nuno (INESC)

### Summary

The Action Points assigned to finish [D3.1 edition](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/milestones/D3.1%20Ready%20for%20final%20Edition) were reviewed. Although not having all issues closed, there are just a few ones that require more attention, namely:

[Issue 79](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/79)-> Ancutá (FOKUS)

[Issue 70](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/70) -> Eric (Orange)

[Issue 64](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/64) - Paulo (PTIN)

All pending D3.1 issues **must** be closed by next Thursday morning (17th Sept) in time for next WP3 meeting at 10:30 CEST am.

The goal is to start the internal review by next Friday, the 18th Sept, which should be done until 24th Sept

Regarding the [development environment and methodology](../methodology/readme.md), different options were discussed and consensus was agreed about the separation of source code and documentation I issues that is not directly related with source code. The main rational is not to constrain internal discussions and documentations from the source code and associated documentation that will be later published to the public. Another reason is to be flexible on the selection of the source code versioning methodology eg avoid the need to clone the full documentation in order to contribute to the source code.

Consensus was also agreed on having a repository per component (e.g. one repo for core-runtime, another for the hyperty-framework and another for vertx Messaging Node) in order to be more developer friendly (e,g, an Hyperty developer would only need to have access and clone hyperty-framework not eg runtime or Messaging Node related repos). Additional pros and cons points can be found [here](../methodology/readme.md). However, this approach would require to buy more 10 private github repos (additional ~$25 per month). These additional private repos would only be needed during a short period of time ( 3 or 4 months?) while these components are not publicly published.

There was a long discussion about the versioning methodology and it was concluded there is no need to use a complex methodology like Git Flow. Antón, from Quobis, will make a proposal for a simpler methodology.

There was also consensus about the source code structure proposal for JavaScript implementation and in principle for the usage of Karma for JavaScript unit testing.

The usage of Jenkins for continuous integration was already agreed in Aveiro. Orange (Simon) kindly volunteered to host a Jenkins repo (still to be confirmed).

It was agreed to schedule a non-WP3 meeting to discuss and reach consensus about these implementation issues since all implementation tasks should use the same methologies and tools.

### Action Points

Besides the existing D3.1 Edition action points:

* D3.1 ready for internal review: 17th September (Paulo)
* Send a reminder to internal reviewers for the internal review period (18th - 24th September) (Paulo)
* Propose the scheduling of Telco dedicated to implementation methodology and tools (asap, Paulo)
* Propose an appropriate versioning methodology (16th Sept?, Antón)
* Provide any additional feedback about the methodology to be used, notably for the JavaScript unit testing (17th Sept, All)
