### Agenda

1. Action Points review (5 min)
1. [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) Review. (5 min)
2. [Experimentations with Service Workers/Web Workers](../../tests/workers/readme.md) and other existing libraries (10 min)
1. [Runtime Dynamic View](../specs/runtime/readme.md) review (15 min)
1. [Data Synchronisation communication model](../specs/runtime/data-synch-model.md) and experimentations (10 min)
1. PlantUML hands-on.
1. [Messaging Node spec](../specs/msg-node/readme.md) kick-off


### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa, Luis Duarte, Miguel Mesquita, Vitor Silva,  (PTIN)
* Steffen Drüsedow,(DT)
* Mark Emmelmann, Alice Cheambe, Andreea Ancuta (FOKUS)
* Frédéric Luart (APIZEE)
* Ahmed BOUABDALLAH (IMT)
* Santiago Troncoso (Quobis)

### Summary

Pending Action Points were reviewed:

* AP12: General Feedback about [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) to be discussed [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/41), (All, ongoing).
* AP15: Nodejs and Kurento SOTA contributions to be improved (Frédéric, 5th June) **closed** 
* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP28: Identity Management Runtime dynamic view (All, ?): doodle to find a date -> agreed date is every Tuesday at 15:00 CEST and first session already occured **closed**
* AP29: H2H Comm Runtime dynamic view (All, 6th July at 12:00 CEST) -> first session occured **closed**
* AP30: M2M Comm Runtime dynamic view (All, 10th July at 10:00 CEST) -> first session to occur tomorrow **pending**
* AP31: [Discuss](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/46) Javascript vs Typescript (All, ongoing)
 
The Runtime architecture was reviewed according to last changes according to feedback coming from the Dynamic View Analysis activities. A new Core component may be added to manage the loading of Protocol Stubs and Hyperty instances depending on whether this component is able to instantiate Objects in other sandboxes.

The usage of Service Workers to implement Core functionalities was discussed. It was agreed to perform a [few experimentations to evaluate this technology](../../tests/workers/readme.md). PTIN, DT and APizee will cooperate on these experimentations with source code shared in the Github repository.

The [data synchronisation communication model](../specs/runtime/data-synch-model.md) was discussed including how to avoid inconsistencies between data objects when we concurrency. It was agreed to perform a [few experimentations on its implementation](../../tests/data-synch/readme.md). Quobis and Fokus will try to look on this.
 
Basics Dynamic views were briefly reviewed. IdM, H2H and M2M diagrams will be worked out in the next sessions where different use cases will be distributed and allocated among partners.

It was agreed to use PlantUML by all partners. If needed a dedicated work session about PlantUML usage in reTHINK will be organised.

Initial input to [Messaging Node specification](../specs/msg-node/readme.md) was briefly introduced and discussed. Partners are encouraged to contribute.

Alice, will open a Git Hub issue to resume the Service Framework activity which should have a strong dependency on the Data Synch Communication model.

In principle Javascript programming language will be used and not Typescript. To be confirmed. However, it should be evaluated on how to handle the usage of new EC6 features in old runtimes that still don't support it.

### New Action Points

* AP12: General Feedback about [Runtime Arch](../specs/runtime/runtime-architecture.md) to be discussed [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/41), (All, ongoing).
* AP21: Standards SOTA summary (Antón, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP22: Projects SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP23: Runtime SOTA summary (Paulo, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP24: Messaging SOTA summary (Simon - to be confirmed, 26th June) **pending** delayed until end of July
* AP25: Service Framework SOTA summary (Alice, 26th June) **pending** delayed untile end of July
* AP32: [Service/Web Workers experimentations](../../tests/workers/readme.md) (Steffen, Fréd, Vitor, Joel)
* AP33: [Data Synchronisation experimentations](../../tests/data-synch/readme.md) (Santiago?, Alice?, Micael?, Inesc?)
* AP34: [Messaging Node specification](../specs/msg-node/readme.md) (All, 15th July)
* AP35: Resume Task Hyperty Framework with a Github Issue (Alice)


