## Berlin Face to Face Meeting

### Agenda

1. Introduction (WP3 revisited) (5 min)
1. Action Points review (10 min)
1. [Requirements](../sota/selection-criteria.md)(15 min)
1. [State of the Art ](../sota/sota.md) Review (45 min)
1. Short List Selection (15 min)
1. Draft Initial Arch and APIs (30 min)
1. [D3.1 ToC](../deliverables/D3.1-Hyperty-Runtime-and-Hyperty-Messaging-Node-Specification.md) (10 min)
1. kick-off implementation tasks
 1. T3.2 Runtime (5 min)
 1. T3.3 QoS (5 min)
 1. T3.4 Framework (5 min)
 1. T3.5 Messaging Node (5 min)
1. Synchronisation with WP4 including common methodology and tools for the integration and documentation
 
### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa (PTIN)
* Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)
* Eric Paillet, Simon Bécot, Ewa Janczukowicz (phone) (Orange)
* Stephen Drüsedow, Denise Engert, Kay Haensge, Joachim Schonowski, (DT)
* Frédéric Luart, Arnaud Vallée (APIZEE)
* Alice CHEAMBE (Fokus)
* Yudani Riobó (Quobis)


### Summary

WP3 objectivesm workplan and tasks structure was briefly introduced by Paulo followed by the review of pending Action Points:

AP23: Improve description of [" Network QoS Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Network%20QoS%20Requirement) if possible with examples. (Ewa, 15 May)-> **done**

AP3: APIZEE contribute with SOTA about their solutions (APIZEE Deadline: 13 May) -> **done**

AP9: Final report about SOTA. (All, 18th May). **on going**

AP10: Each task leader should provide some slides to be presented in Berlin. It should contain:
- overview. objectives and dependencies on other tasks
- workplan for phase 1
- methodology
(Alice, Ewa, Yudani, Paulo 15 May) **done**

Requirements were reviewed and no new requirement was added since last meeting. According to comment https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/15 it was decided to also include QUIC protocol in SOTA.

SOTA work is progressing very well (~17 references) but not yet finalised. DT offered to also contribute on Firefox OS. Contributions about Jitsi, Kurento and Node.js are also still missing.

One initial short list of solutions to be reused were discussed:

**Javascript Runtime engine**
* V8/Node.js
* JDK 8 (Nashorn)

**WebRTC engine**
* webrtc.og (google)
* openwebrtc (ericsson)

**Browsers**
* chromium
* mozzila/firefox os

**Messaging Node**
* Vertx
* Node.js
* Matrix
  
The Selection of solutions should take into account its usability in WP6 trials ie solutions that are not going to be used in WP6 will not be selected.

A initial architecture draft for the runtime was presented and discussed including the possibility to have several types of runtime according to the device type eg with or without GUI, Browser or Native. We should avoid as much as possible changes of existing runtime modules and add features with extensions eg Browsers plugins. Such changes have to be analysed according to device type eg with or withou GUI, Browser or native.

It was also discussed the possibility to have a "shim" javascript package to support the execution of Hyperties on non compliant runtime which would be implemented in T3.4 (Framework). 

Paulo presented T3.2 (Runtime) and T3.5 (Messaging node) objectives, workplan and methodology based on short iterations and continous integration. Runtime work will require deep knowledge of C/C++ that DT, INESC-ID, PTIN and Orange (mainly for Identity related aspects) confirmed to provide. Fokus will support on implementation tasks with Javascript.

Ewa presented T3.3 (qos enforcement) on the phone including the TURN approach used by Orange. DT (Kay) will also participate in this task

Alice presented T3.4 objectives, workplan and methodology and some ideas about implementation tools to support Continous INtegration. Alice also introduced the concept of Hyperty Template (a la Angular) to facilitate the development of Hyperties.


New Action Points

QUIC contributions : Anton?
