## Join Me

https://join.me/250-509-413

Agenda
------

- [Phase 2 specs](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/labels/phase%202)
- [Phase 2 implementation tasks](https://github.com/orgs/reTHINK-project/projects/1)
- Other Ongoing development status:
  - Storage Manager
  - NodeJS runtime
  - Runtime Catalogue
  - GraphConnector
  - Runtime Registry
  - Discovery
  - Id Module Administration and Persistence
  - Policy engine Administration and Persistence
  - Browser Runtime / Standalone App
  - RuntimeUA / Syncher
  - Vertx MN
  - Matrix MN
  - NodeJS MN
  - Json Schema validation
  - Toolkit
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/papers/tree/master/ICIN2017)

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho, Vitor (PTIN)

- Antón, David (Quobis)

- Steffen, Elias (T Labs)

- Jean-Michel (Orange)

- Jamal (APIZEE)


- Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)



Summary
-------


**Phase 2 specs**

Only minor adjustments done according to feedback got from the implementation tasks.

**NodeJS Phase 2 implementation**

- httpRequest lib should now be ready to support post methods for Browser and NodeJS
- Retrieve Catalogue Objects according to constraints: should be ready next week FOKUS
- [IDM @ NodeJS](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/issues/17): see [outcome here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/issues/17#issuecomment-261919199)
- Reporter not supported by last node versions. Using older versions don't work. Other solutions have to be found. Jamal (APIZEE), Vitor (ALB)
- Issues with Storage Manager: to be further clarified
- [Runtime Capabilities issue is back again](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/issues/131)

**Address Reusage**

Almost finished. Missing some fixes to have observer listeners added in the sandbox.

**Runtime Sharing**

David is working on the implementation of the windowSandbox based on iFrame. Some problems to debug since this is a sandbox.
But succeed to have the runtime core deployed in a shared worker.

**Global Discovery**

- Global Registry / Graph Connector : Integration of the Graph Connector in the runtime core is almost finished.
- Global Discovery: two options to interact with the Domain Registry:
  1- Using the Rest API: not protocol agnostic but easier to implement. Only Read operations will be allowed. Domain Registry API has to be accessible from the Internet.
  2- Using "message API" that is agnostic of Domain Registry Rest API. A Message Stub featuring Protofly mechanisms ie Protostubs loader [will be provided](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/issues/20): Steffen already succeed having something working but having problems deploying the nodejs enabled Stub. Vitor will provide some insights on how to do that with the toolkit.
- MSG Node Access Control: can we use the Id Token? waiting for feedback from WP4
- On going discussion about using IdP Identifiers to query the Global Registry

**Legacy INtewroking**

- Extensions required in the Runtime Core to support legacy interworking, almost done.
- IMS interworking: more detailed specs on going


**P2P Protostubs**

- Extensions required are progressing well. Should be ready very soon,
- P2P Stubs based on WebRTC Data Channel ready.

**Others**

- Login popup is not opening in Firefox: David will have a look

**standardisation**

*no progress*

W3C Community creation will be proposed. DT (Ingo) could help in order to find the right scope.
IETF for Decentralized Messaging Framework was also discussed.


**papers**

*no progress*

Initial input will have to be summarised and adapted.
