Agenda
------


-	Open Repos to Public: License and Copyright Header
-	[Browser / Standalone Runtime status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-browser/issues)
-	[Matrix Msg Node status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-msg-node-matrix)
-	[Nodejs Msg Node status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-msg-node-nodejs/issues)
-	[Runtime Administration](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/160)
-	[Core 0.4 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/milestones/Core%200.4%20)
-	[Service Framework 0.2 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-service-framework/milestones/service-framework%200.2)


Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho, Micael Pedrosa, Vitor Silva, Luis (PTIN)

-	David (Quobis)

- Fréderic, Nicholas (APIZEE)

-	Ricardo Chaves, Gil, Ricardo Lopes Pereira (INESC-ID)

-	Steffen, Philipp Dockhorn, Johannes Hamfler (DT)


Summary
-------

WP3 Phase 1 developments should be finished until end of March.

**Open dev Repos to the public**

Core Runtime, Service Framework and Vertx are already opened to the public. NodeJS Msg Node, Matrix Msg Node and Browser Runtime will be opened very soon.

**Browser Runtime**

Browser Runtime is ~1 week delayed because of the new runtime loader from the Core Runtime. A new proposal from David will be posted in a github issue. We'll try to schedulle a new F2F meeting in Aveiro next wednesday in order to speed up the new browser runtime release.

**Matrix MsgNode**

Good News: WebRTC and Chat Group demos are now running in Matrix. Today, in our work session in the afternoon, we'll try to have interoperability between Matrix and Vertx domains. Steffen will try to setup a Matrix node accessible from the Internet. PTIN will use its testbed which is already available from the Internet. Gil, from INESC, will have to be update HypertyDiscovery lib to allow to discover "foreigner" Hyperty instances.

**Nodejs MsgNode**

Some progresses. Finally, integration with domain registry was achieved and it seems we are very close now to also have webrtc and group chat demos working in NodeJS.

**Core Runtime 0.4**

-	Some components (Runtime Catalogue, Identity Module and Catalogue local) are using DOM functions that won't be available in NodeJS. A proposal is under discussion [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/issues/54).
-	Separation of the Idp Proxy from Id Module. An API compliant with WebRTC has been defined. Since Web Workers Sandbox does not access the dom, the Relying Party login window will be performed by the Id Module. It should be ready next week in time for the Integration F2F meeting in Aveiro (see above)
-	Graph Connector: There is a dedicated telco scheduled tomorrow at 15:00 to discuss this.
- Policy Engine: new version supporting white and black lists. A policy management GUI is also under development. The usage of this new version should be integrated in the current webrtc and chat demos.
- Runtime Registry already supports the unregister of Hyperty Instances but not yet [keep alive and more advanced search features](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/issues/69). More advanced search (eg search for Hyperty Instances for a certain user to communicate with voice) is not very performant since it implies a few interactions with the Catalogue to load and parse the descriptor. A new issue should be opened to discuss a more performant and flexible search mechanism.
- Sync Manager improvement is ongoing to support the release of "dead" Hyperty Objects.
-	URL and Address Factories are not being used yet.
-	It seems Generic Persistence Manager component is already being used by the runtime Catalogue (Fokus didn't attend) but not by others.



**Service Framework 0.2**

-	Generation from plantuml of a new version of the json-schema with new structure is ongoing. A few issues related with mismatch between resouece tree oriented json-schema and object oriented plantuml.
- Message Factory update and	json schema validation: Alice didn't attend
-	User Identity Factory: not discussed.

**NodeJS Runtime**

No progress.

**[Runtime Administration](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/160)**

Agreed to have it as a GUI of the Core Runtime


### Pending Issues from previous meetings that were not discussed

**Runtime shared by more than one App**

Currently, and due to technical browser limitations, there is one runtime per App. Solutions to support more than one App per Runtime are [under discussion](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/137).
