Agenda
------

- [Deliverable D3.5 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/D3.5)
- [Phase 2 specs](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/labels/phase2)
- Ongoing development status:
  - NodeJS runtime
  - GraphConnector
  - Runtime Registry
  - Discovery
  - Id Module Administration and Persistence
  - Policy engine Administration and Persistence
  - Browser Runtime
  - RuntimeUA / Syncher
  - Vertx MN
  - Matrix MN
  - NodeJS MN
  - Json Schema validation
  - Toolkit
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169)

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho, Luis, Vitor (PTIN)

- Gil, Ana (INESC-ID)

- David, Antón (Quobis)

- Steffen (DT)

- Marc (FOKUS)

- Arnaut, Jamal, Nicholas (APIZEE)


Summary
-------



**D3.5**

(according to most updated DoW this deliverable is not D3.1 but D3.5)

Template for chapter 2 (Core Framework specification update) was discussed and agreed. It was noted that the full specs are provided in the Github and the deliverable only provides an overview of it with links to associated Github pages.

Currently, specs are mainly provided in two separated repos ([here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-service-framework/tree/master/docs/specs) and [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/tree/master/docs/specs)). Having it in a dedicated repo (eg called "specs") would facilitate internal work and also potential contributions from external parties. To be further discussed online.

So far, no contributions were done.

**Phase 2 specs**

Some conversations are ongoing in github issues but still in a very early stage. Special attention should be taken for work to be done in cooperation with other tasks namely:

* Qos control with Task 3.3
* legacy interoperability with task 6.4

**development status**

New releases were provided for the Core Runtime, Service Framework and the Toolkit. pls note these new releases are aligned with new version of the domain registry in order to support registration and discovery of data objects. Testbeds should be updated with these new releases.

* NodeJS Runtime was broken with last release. This is not suppose to happen and we should give priority to fix this issue. NodeJS Runtime **MUST** reuse Core Runtime and Service Framework.
- Graph Connector / Global Registry: TUB didn't attend.
- Runtime Registry / Discovery: updated to support registration and search of Data objects
- Id Module: no updates
- Policy Engine: admin and persistence added. Quobis will test it to merge into the master branch.
- RuntimeUA / Syncher: no updates
- Vertx MN: minor update to support "message.id" string types
- Matrix MN: updated to support faster WS handshakes. There is a new version in the "nomatrix" branch that does not use Matrix. A new repo will be created for this MN that will be used for the evolvement of the MN
- NOdeJS MN: no updates
- Json Schema Validation: is working. To be checked whether this is always enabled or just in "debug" mode. The plantuml json-schema generator is not producing correct json -schema for some data models. In these situations, json-schema is manually created and maintained.
- new release supporting the generation of hyperty descriptors. The master branch uses browser runtime while the develop branch uses the core runtime

**standardisation**

No further progress.

**paper**

No progress.
