Agenda
------

- [Phase 2 topics](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/170)
- Deliverable D3.3 plan
  - ToC and Responsability allocation: 28th July
  - contributions: 9th September
  - ready for internal review: 16th September
  - Internal review done: 23rd September
  - submit to EC: 30th September
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
  - booth and demos at [W3C TPAC 2016](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/)
  - [reTHINK W3C Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/)
   - others?
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169)
- Ongoing development status:
  - NodeJS runtime
  - Id Module Administration
  - Policy engine Administration
  - ..

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho, Vitor Silva (PTIN)

- Arnaut, Jamal (APIZEE)

- Gil, Ana (INESC-ID)

- Marc (FOKUS)

- David, Antón (Quobis)

- Felix (TU Berlin)

Summary
-------

**[Phase 2 topics](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/170)**

Partners discussed and agreed with the topics to be addressed in phase 2. "iOS standalone" and "Protofly at MN" will be confirmed later.

**Deliverable D3.3**

Plan for D3.3 was agreed. ToC will be proposed asap latest 26th of July.

Since standard work requires lot of effort, in general partners propose to focus on a few topics.

**standardisation**

It was agreed to create a W3C Community Group as suggested by Martin (W3C Spanish office). This is a kind of standardisation incubation process that anyone can create and participate without having to be members of W3C, only an account is required. Paulo will propose a textual description for the creation of this group.

Orange as an official member of W3C, will apply to have a booth in TPAC on September to be held in Lisbon with our demos. Other partners can be in the booth but Antón will confirm if there is any limitation in terms of number of people and attendance of the different sessions.

**paper**

No progress.

**development status**

A new version of the core runtime and dev service framework should be released by end of July.

* NodeJS Runtime is progressing, the runtime core is now successfully loaded and Id Module is currently using a fake identity. Working on the sandbox implementation for the deployment of protostubs.
- Graph Connector / Global Registry: Felix will merge with runtime core develop branch to check if the integration works. The big size caused by the usage of 3rd party libs will also be reviewed since this is currently crashing the runtime distribution that includes the source maps.
- Some issues with the load of the Administration pages for the policy management and id module. To be discussed offline
- Logs should have been improved in the develop branch but David from Quobis raised some issues to be discussed offline. 
