## Joinme meeting

https://join.me/668-100-829

Agenda
------

- [Deliverable D3.5 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/D3.5)
- [Phase 2 specs](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/labels/phase2)
- [Phase 2 implementation tasks]
   - [Runtime](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/labels/phase2)
   - [Service Framework](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-service-framework/labels/Phase%202)
- Ongoing development status:
  - Persistence Manager
  - NodeJS runtime
  - Runtime Catalogue
  - GraphConnector
  - Runtime Registry
  - Discovery
  - Id Module Administration and Persistence
  - Policy engine Administration and Persistence
  - Browser Runtime / Standalone App
  - RuntimeUA / Syncher
  - Vertx MN
  - Matrix MN
  - NodeJS MN
  - Json Schema validation
  - Toolkit
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169): target ICIN 2017?

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho (PTIN)

- Steffen (DT)

- Gil, Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)

- Nicholas (APIZEE)

- Jean-Michel (Orange)


Summary
-------

**Webinar and TADHack preparation**

Overview of pending issues to be addressed before the Webinar and TADHack. Some non-functional Hyperties are still pending (eg User Status and DTWebRTC). The Browser Runtime and the NodeJS with most updated Runtime Core version (develop branch) is also not yet available. We should make a release to be deployed in the testbeds, be tomorrow.

**D3.5 and Phase 2 specs**

Some discussion around Interworking with Legacy domains including interworking with legacy domain Identities. As previously agreed, this is a topic to be included in D3.5 to analyse the impact of legacy interworking in the core framework and this is a joint work between WP3 and WP6.

*no further progresses since last week. Notes below from last meeting are kept in order not to loose status*

Updates on specifications should be done in the new [specs repo](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs). In the [word doc](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/blob/master/docs/deliverables/d3.5/D3.5-Hyperty-Runtime-and-Hyperty-Messaging-Node-Specification.docx) people should provide the links to the markdown files to be imported from the specs repo. The editor (Paulo) will use existing scripts to automatically import these files into the word doc as soon as contributions are frozen and ready for internal review.

Recommendations for the implementation of the Message Nodes should be provided [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/blob/master/tutorials/msg-node-development-recommendations.md) and this link should be provided in the right section of the word doc version.

The specification tests should also be moved to the new repo spec: in a new "tests" folder?

P2P Stubs spec is finished.

Initial contributions for the Messaging Framework, QoS, Runtime, Group Communication and Policy Management.

No feedback from the Service Framework (Marc)

Group Communication has a dependency on the support of Identity Management in NodeJS. There was one initial proposal and WP4 will provide input here.

Addresses reusage was discussed including the need to also persist the runtime id. Independently of the address reusage, MNs should support subscriptions persistence.

**development status**

* Continuous integration with Travis has been added to some repos develop branches like the runtime core, service framework and vertx MN. It is easy to use and all repos responsibles are encouraged to also use Travis.
* NodeJS Runtime: there was an agreement about the built process that is being implemented.
- Graph Connector / Global Registry: TUB didn't attend.
- Runtime Registry / Discovery: the Domain Registry bug fix has been successfuly tested and a new release of the domains registry should be done and deployed in the testbeds
- Id Module: Admin GUI is now available but without persistence, yet
- Policy Engine: A few bug fixes and improvement of the admin GUI
- RuntimeUA / Syncher: Timeout bug is still not fully fixed. A temporary fix will be provided in the next release.
- Vertx MN: no major updates
- Matrix MN: a new repo was created for the NoMatrix MN which has much better performance
- NOdeJS MN: no updates
- Json Schema Validation: no updates
- Toolkit: lots of improvements including the usage of docker-compose to make it work better in different OS

**standardisation**

No updates

W3C Community creation will be proposed

**paper**

No updates
