Agenda
------

-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
  - would we be able to present something at [W3C TPAC 2016](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/)?
  (unfortunately it partialy overlaps with EC review. [WebRTC group meets on Thursday](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/schedule.html))
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169)
- Demos for Advisory Board and EC Review on September
- Phase 1 pending issues and lessons learned (WP3, WP5 and WP6)
- Phase 2 preparation:
  - Graph Connector
  - Orange IdP Proxy / IdM
  - NodeJS Runtime

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho, Vitor Silva (PTIN)

- Arnaut, Nicholas (APIZEE)

- Ricardo Chaves, Ricardo Pereira, Nuno,	Gil, Ana (INESC-ID)

-	Steffen (DT)

- Marc (FOKUS)

- Jean-michel, Simon (Orange)

- David, Ant√≥n (Quobis)

Summary
-------

**standardisation**

Since standard work requires lot of effort, in general partners propose to focus on a few topics.

Next W3C meeting on September will be held in Lisbon and we'll try to present something there. Since no reTHINK participants have experience on working in W3C, Orange will contact its representative and Quobis will also ask Spanish office (?) for a telco next meeting. Based on this feedback we'll decide on how to proceed regarding W3C Lisbon meeting and the W3C meeting. We should check if we meet [participation policies](https://www.w3.org/2016/09/TPAC/#participation) ie to be members of W3C Working, Interest, Business or Community Group, or to be invited as a Guest. [Community Group participants](https://www.w3.org/community/groups/) (eg [ORTC Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/ortc/participants) don't have to be W3C Members and are able to register. Actually the creation of a W3C Community Group could be a good option.

Marc proposed and Partners agreed to start answering three questions in order to be more focused on this work:

- what's the problem
- why is commercially relevant
- what is the solution

**paper**

The above three questions will also be the starting point to write the paper.

**demos**

It was agreed to schedulled a dedicated WP6 telco (already schedulled for next Monday) to discuss these demos.
