## Joinme meeting

https://join.me/442-996-013

Agenda
------

- [Webinar and TADHack preparation](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-hyperty-toolkit/issues/19)
- [Deliverable D3.5 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/D3.5)
- [Phase 2 specs](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/labels/phase2)
- Ongoing development status:
  - NodeJS runtime
  - GraphConnector
  - Runtime Registry
  - Discovery
  - Id Module Administration and Persistence
  - Policy engine Administration and Persistence
  - Browser Runtime / Standalone App
  - RuntimeUA / Syncher
  - Vertx MN
  - Matrix MN
  - NodeJS MN
  - Json Schema validation
  - Toolkit
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169): target ICIN 2017?

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho (PTIN)

- Steffen (DT)

- Gil (INESC-ID)

- Nicholas (APIZEE)

- Jean-Michel (Orange)

Summary
-------

**Webinar and TADHack preparation**

Overview of pending issues to be addressed before the Webinar and TADHack. Most critical ones are Hyperties that are not working but are published in the Default Catalogue as well as to updated the Browser Runtime and the NodeJS with most updated Runtime Core version (develop branch)

**D3.5 and Phase 2 specs**

Updates on specifications should be done in the new [specs repo](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs). In the [word doc](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/blob/master/docs/deliverables/d3.5/D3.5-Hyperty-Runtime-and-Hyperty-Messaging-Node-Specification.docx) people should provide the links to the markdown files to be imported from the specs repo. The editor (Paulo) will use existing scripts to automatically import these files into the word doc as soon as contributions are frozen and ready for internal review.

Recommendations for the implementation of the Message Nodes should be provided [here](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs/blob/master/tutorials/msg-node-development-recommendations.md) and this link should be provided in the right section of the word doc version.

The specification tests should also be moved to the new repo spec: in a new "tests" folder?

P2P Stubs spec is finished.

Initial contributions for the Messaging Framework, QoS, Runtime, Group Communication and Policy Management.

No feedback from the Service Framework (Marc)

Group Communication has a dependency on the support of Identity Management in NodeJS. There was one initial proposal and WP4 will provide input here.

Addresses reusage was discussed including the need to also persist the runtime id. Independently of the address reusage, MNs should support subscriptions persistence.

**development status**

* Continuous integration with Travis has been added to some repos develop branches like the runtime core, service framework and vertx MN. It is easy to use and all repos responsibles are encouraged to also use Travis.
* NodeJS Runtime: there was an agreement about the built process that was not implemented, yet.
- Graph Connector / Global Registry: TUB didn't attend.
- Runtime Registry / Discovery: Not clear of the Domain Registry bug fix but tests are ongoing (Steffen, DT)
- Id Module: Admin GUI is now available but without persistence, yet
- Policy Engine: A few bug fixes and improvement of the admin GUI
- RuntimeUA / Syncher: Timeout bug fixed.
- Vertx MN: no major updates
- Matrix MN: a new repo was created for the NoMatrix MN which has much better performance
- NOdeJS MN: no updates
- Json Schema Validation: no updates
- Toolkit: lots of improvements including the usage of docker-compose to make it work better in different OS

**standardisation**

No updates

W3C Community creation will be proposed

**paper**

No updates
