## Joinme meeting
https://join.me/508-946-223

Agenda
------

- New [specs repo](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/specs)
- WP3 and WP4 delay of 2 months:
  - D3.5 due end of November 2016
  - D3.2 due end of February 2017
- W3C TPAC participation
- [Deliverable D3.5 status](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/D3.5)
- [Phase 2 specs](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/labels/phase2)
- Ongoing development status:
  - NodeJS runtime
  - GraphConnector
  - Runtime Registry
  - Discovery
  - Id Module Administration and Persistence
  - Policy engine Administration and Persistence
  - Browser Runtime / Standalone App
  - RuntimeUA / Syncher
  - Vertx MN
  - Matrix MN
  - NodeJS MN
  - Json Schema validation
  - Toolkit
-	[standardisation contributions](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/168)
-	[scientific paper](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/169): target ICIN 2017?

Attendance
----------

-	Paulo Chainho (PTIN)

- Gil, Ana (INESC-ID)

- Antón (Quobis)

- Steffen (DT)

- Marc (FOKUS)

- Arnaut, Jamal (APIZEE)

- Jean-Michel (Orange)

Summary
-------

**D3.5**

Only an initial contribution for the runtime spec update was provided by ALB.

A few issues for the Message Node spec update were clarified namely:

* how to report implementation specific specs:
 * provide some recommendations resulted from the implementations eg the Matrix MN discontinuation
 * provide only links to message nodes github repo documentation that should provide all detailed implementation specs
* the role and functionalities of IdM, end-user device and network server connector
* the need to support the delivery of messages to the Global registry was agreed but an issue will be created to further clarified some aspects

The QoS Control specification status is unclear. A dedicated telco will be scheduled.

An [issue](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/180) about having a dedicated specs repo was created but not discussed in the meeting. We should take a decision on this very soon.

**Phase 2 specs**

P2P Stub draft spec is stable. Detailed specs for messages and associated flows will be the next step

No further contributions for the other specs.

**development status**

* NodeJS Runtime is working again with core runtime and service framework but still some further clarification is needed for the distribution of bundles namely the usage of npm install instead of the catalogue. APIZEE will provide more info in the github issue
- Graph Connector / Global Registry: TUB didn't attend but a [comment](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/dev-runtime-core/issues/33#issuecomment-243501110) was raised regarding the direct access of the runtime core from the App. waiting feedback from TUB.
- Runtime Registry / Discovery: no updates
- Id Module: no updates
- Policy Engine: admin successfuly tested. An issue was created to fix the lack of response when messages are blocked. Further feedback will be provided later on to improve the GUI design.
- RuntimeUA / Syncher: no updates
- Vertx MN: no updates
- Matrix MN: a few fixes to work with last releases including the npm registry connector
- NOdeJS MN: no updates
- Json Schema Validation: no updates
- Toolkit: no updates

**standardisation**

Unfortunately we didn't manage to register a booth for TPAC Lisbon. ALB and Quobis are trying to participate and disseminate rethink in other ways eg breaking out sessions.

**paper**

No progress.
