## Zoom

Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: https://zoom.us/j/848185550

Or iPhone one-tap (US Toll):  +14086380968,848185550# or +16465588656,848185550#

Or Telephone:
    Meeting ID: 848 185 550
  Dial:
    France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
    Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
    Portugal: +351 308 804 188
    Spain: +34 91 198 0188
  More  International numbers available: https://zoom.us/zoomconference?m=PKUopYuhtWEiyr9q0LkXo5tAI2TvTXUE

Agenda
------

- [Phase 2 implementation tasks](https://github.com/orgs/reTHINK-project/projects/1)
- Future Steps / Maintenance process: F2F integration meeting?
-	[W3C Community Group](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/w3c)

Attendance
----------

- Paulo Chainho, Victor (ALB)

- Jamal (APIZEE)

- Ant√≥n, David (Quobis)

- Jean-Michel (Orange Labs)

- Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)


Summary
-------

**implementation status**

Most Critical issues pending on Identity Related issues (INESC-ID) and currently Mutual Authentication is still disabled.
Also Domain Access control is pending on INESC-ID.

* NodeJS Phase 2 implementation: Pending on a few issues related with integration of Identity Module in Nodejs (INESC-ID). Nodejs distribution files and docker files are also still missing.

* Runtime Sharing: progress in Vigo but pending on a removal of window reference in the Identity Module (INESC-ID)
* Global Discovery: pending on GrapConnector Karma tests.
* Legacy Interworking: mostly done. Missing resume support for legacy services (ongoing)
* P2P Protostubs: missing the usage of p2p connections by data sync streams
* Domains Access Control: pending on IdP Connector integration with Policy engine (INESC-ID) to validate Id Tokens.
* Data Backup Service: pending
* QoS: it was agreed in Vigo that there is no need to integrate QoS mechanisms into the runtime for the Orange component. No news from Fokus LHCB component.

**Future **

Since WP3 is oficially closed, regular WP3 Weekly meetings are over. However, dedicated meetings to discuss / solve some missings are encouraged.

It is also proposed to have a f2f integration meeting in Aveiro starting 4th April

**standardisation**

The creation of [W3C Group Community](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/tree/master/docs/standards/W3C) was agreed in Vigo and it will be submited very soon.
