Runtime
-------

A very comprehensive analysis and evaluation of existing web runtime solutions was performed.

In order to evaluate the possibility to modify native implementations of WebRTC engines, Ericsson OpenWebRTC and Google WebRTC.org solutions were considered. OpenWebRTC is a promising modular WebRTC implementation based on popular GStreamer multimedia framework open source solution. Unfortunately, OpenWebRTC support by Ericsson lacks required documentation to let it be adapted to fulfill reTHINK requirements. Google WebRTC.org solution is the reference implementation of WebRTC specification providing all APIs defined in the standards. However, the effort required to change it to fulfill reTHINK requirements is estimated to be very high. On the other hand, having an extended version of an existing WebRTC implementation would require the user to install a new reTHINK Browser. For all the above reasons, it was decided to re-use existing native implementations of WebRTC engines without modifications.

JavaScript engine solutions were evaluated to analyse the possibility to adapt them in order to fulfill reTHINK runtime requirements, notably in terms of security (sandboxing). The V8 JavaScript Engine is an open source JavaScript engine developed by Google for the Google Chrome web browser. It has since been used in many other solutions and it is considered the most powerful JavaScript engine in terms of features and performance. It has mechanisms to facilitate its extension with new features but lacks required mechanisms for sandbox creation. One evaluated alternative is to use Node.js that runs on top of V8 as well as having Node.js inside Docker taking advantage of its management and security features. Both solutions fulfil reTHINK security requirements and will be considered for reTHINK runtime implementations that are not based on browsers.

Firefox OS is a good candidate to implement reTHINK runtime in mobile devices supporting this Operating System. It natively supports JavaScript and HTML APIs 5 (including WebRTC) as programming language, and a robust privilege model to communicate directly with cell phone hardware, and application marketplace.

Three WebRTC based Media Server solutions were evaluated. Jitsi Videobridge supports Selective Forwarding Unit (SFU) for multiuser video communication and it is based on XMPP architecture. Kurento, supports MCU/SFU Star topologies and a modular architecture to implement media processing services. Janus Gateway is a flexible and modular WebRTC gateway that can be used to deploy a full-fledged WebRTC gateway on a cloud provider or just a small nettop/box to handle a specific use case, looking at applications as pluggable modules that a client can connect to through this gateway. These solutions, are good candidates to support server side Hyperties providing media related services.
