##Standards

The reTHINK project describes a framework that provides solutions to manage real time communication capabilities. To implement this framework the project team tried to use the most suitable existing standards which provide compatibility with existing technologies. Using consolidated and widely used standards also make the development more efficient since open source libraries can be used in the developments. Additionally to well-known standards, the project team has also tried to find emerging standards, which can be adapted for reTHINK requirements. In those cases, a trade-off analysis has been made to determine if the choice of a not consolidated standard is optimal in terms of cost of use due to the lack of existing libraries and projects, which use them.

The IETF has been creating and promoting the Internet standards since 1986. The IETF is organized in a large number of Working Groups (WG), which works on specific areas. For reTHINK project, the team has focused on standards delivered by several WG (namely Rtcweb, TRAM, HTTP/2 and Network). The Rtcweb WG has defined a set of RFCs (many of them are still drafts), which are used in WebRTC, it defines how WebRTC works on the wire. Many of the used protocols already existed but many of them were created ad-hoc to meet WebRTC requirements. Other RFCs are informational and have been released to gather the WG knowledge in a formal way. The TRAM (TURN Revised and Modernized) working group is carrying out a modernization of the protocols used to transport real-time media over Internet which is the final function of ReTHINK framework.

HTTP/2 is the new version of HTTP/1.1 which has been used in the web for the last 16 years. It provides a new low level design to optimize current Web applications keeping the semantic of HTTP/1.1 which is still valid. HTTP/1.1 has been historically transported over TCP, however to take advantage of all the new features of HTTP/2 a new transport protocol build over UDP has been designed: QUIC. HTTP/2 draft is based on SPDY but it includes new features and will soon become a definitive RFC. The draft belongs to the HTTP WG. QUIC was developed by Google but it has been recently become an IETF Draft taking over the last changes in the protocol until close the definitive RFC. HTTP/2 over QUIC has been considered as an alternative for messaging in the ReTHINK framework as it is optimized to be used over wireless connection and minimizes the delay in every communication.

The IETF is in charge of standardizes all the protocols on the wire in Internet. In turn, the W3C (WWW Consortium) is the main international standards organization for the World Wide Web. It standardizes how the browser behave (e.g. WebRTC 1.0 API exposed by the browsers) and the languages (e.g. HTML and JavaScript) which can be executed by a standard browser. Its main role is to promote and homogenize the evolution of the Web. During the state of the Art research work we focused on the standards susceptible of being used by any element within the reTHINK framework.

The WebRTC 1.0 API has been standardized by the W3C and is the way in which a JavaScript application interacts with the browser to establish real-time sessions with other WebRTC endpoints. A comprehensive knowledge of this API was necessary to make design decisions and to define the architecture and the data model of the framework.

A Community group has been created within the W3C to promote an alternative WebRTC API called ORTC (Object Real-Time Communications), which gives more control to the WebRTC developer making easier to implement some scenarios. There are still not implementations of ORTC in production-ready browser, however the features introduced by this standard, which is likely to become the base of the WebRTC 2.0 API have been considered during the design phase.

Another relevant W3C API is the Push API, which allows a push service to send "push messages" to a webapp regardless of whether the webapp is currently active on the user agent. This is specially useful for webapps running on mobile devices where the webapp may need to receive a notification while the browser is not in foreground.

The use of another feature supported by browser called Service Workers has been already evaluated to be used to implement different parts of the Runtime environment. Despite the fact that this specification is still a Working Draft of the W3C it is already supported by the most important browsers. However, this is feature is not supported by server side JavaScript-based runtime environments. It only can be used when the runtime is executed by a browser.

There is another interesting W3C Draft called "Application Lifecycle and Events" which extends the Service Workers with APIs for managing the lifecycle of an application and associated events. This Draft allows web developers to create applications that manage the application lifecycle and react to system events e.g. email or VoIP application. However, this Draft has been not been adopted by many vendors so far.

In this section the standards released by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) were also reviewed. The OMA is a Mobile Operator driven industry forum for the definition of inter-operable mobile service enablers. OMA defines APIs to offer functionalities and resources of Operator networks to developers. Amongst the API and protocols standardized by the OMA the team decided to review those which are relevant for the project such as the Authorization Framework for Network APIs, the RESTful Network API for WebRTC Signalling, Quality of Service API and Notification Channel. The LWM2M/COAP protocol which was designed to be supported by constrained devices has also been considered as a suitable alternative to interact with the Registry and Discovery services.

Finally, a recent standard called Smart Device Template (SDT) and released by the HGI (Home Gateway Iniative) has been reviewed. It provides a framework to create a consistent representation of Smart Home devices. This makes easier the integration of new devices in Home Gateway or in the cloud being specially interesting to implement M2M within the reTHINK framework.
