### Agenda

1. Action Points review (15min, PCh)
1. [Assets Selection Criteria](../sota/selection-criteria.md)(25 min)
1. [State of the Art ](../sota/sota.md) status (10 min)
1. Agenda for Face to Face meeting in Berlim. (10 min) Topics:
 1. Approve SOTA and Evaluation Reports and Assets Short list
 2. Discuss input from T2.2 and T2.3 and draft initial internal APIs
 3. kick-off implementation tasks
 4. Synchronisation with WP4 including common methodology and tools for the integration and documentation
 
### Participants

* Paulo Chainho, Luis Duarte (PTIN)
* Ricardo Chaves, Ricardo Pereira (INESC-ID)
* Simon (Orange)
* Steffen (DT)
* Arnaud (APIZEE)
* Rebecca (IMT)

**Missing: Quobis, Fokus**

### Summary

Action Points were reviewed:

* AP1: [SOTA](../sota/sota.md) work allocated among partners but no other references were added. Paulo proposed a new SOTA topic related with "Web Runtime Security" (separated topic from current Security SOTA work going on in WP4) and there were no objections to have it. A partner responsible for this is needed (AP5). Simon proposed also to add Firebase in the references and he will check whether Orange will take the responsability to evaluate Firebase (AP6). -> **closed**
* AP2: Derive requirements and selection criteria for runtime, messaging, frameworks and QoS components (All, Deadline: 23 April) ->  Only PTIN has provided contributions [here](../sota/selection-criteria.md) **Ongoing**
* AP3: APIZEE and QUOBIS contribute with SOTA about their solutions including an analysis on how they could fit with the protocol-on-the-fly mechanism provided by [WONDER library](http://hypercomm.github.io/wonder/)(APIZEE, QUOBIS, Deadline: 7 May) -> No progress reported.  **Ongoing**

Paulo, gave an overview of requirements contributed for Messaging Node and Runtime components and, according to comments received, a few changes were performed notably iy was proposed to remove #19 [Message Caching](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/issues/19) requirement since this is more related with a solution than with a requirement. It was proposed to have Ewa responsible for "Network QoS" component requirements (AP23). It is also proposed to have Fokus responsible for Messaging Node Requirements (AP22) and PTIN for Runtime requirments (AP21). A new deadline is set for this contribution: xxx

Only PTIN and DT reported a brief status of ongoing SOTA:

* DT (Matrix): mainly addressing Messaging Node component functionalities. Evaluation started with its deployment. Documentation very good but a bit buggy. Current version very monolithic. Work focused on how to develop a Matrix client and a GW to integrate with reTHINK.

* PTIN (Vertx, V8): Currently evaluating Vertx in terms of Authentication and Authorisation features. V8 was installed in Ubuntu and PTIN is currently studying its documentation.

All partners are encouraged to provide in the next WP3 meeting a report on the status of SOTA work that should be very close to final. SOTA should be contributed with markdown files in the [Github SOTA folder](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/tree/master/docs/sota)

### Action Points

AP21: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Runtime by using the Github issues feature and label ["Runtime Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Runtime%20Requirement). To be done by All. Paulo from PTIN lead this task. Deadline 6th May

AP22: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Messaging Node by using the Github issues feature and label [" Messaging Node Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Messaging%20Node%20Requirement). To be done by All. Adel from FOKUS lead this task. Deadline 6th May

AP23: Review and Derive requirements and selection criteria for Network Qos by using the Github issues feature and label [" Network QoS Requirement"](https://github.com/reTHINK-project/core-framework/labels/Network%20QoS%20Requirement). To be done by All. Ewa from Orange lead this task. Deadline 6th May

AP3: APIZEE and QUOBIS contribute with SOTA about their solutions including an analysis on how they could fit with the protocol-on-the-fly mechanism provided by WONDER library(APIZEE, QUOBIS, Deadline: 7 May)

AP5: Volunteer to be responsible for SOTA about "Security in the runtime". 29th Apr

AP6: confirmation that Orange will contribute on Firebase solution. (Simon, 29th Apr)

AP7: report about SOTA status. (All, 11th May)

AP8: next meeting: 11th May
